[Documentation][ModeExample]:
## Symbol Definitions: _RegexSymbols.xml_

The file called `RegexSymbols.xml` is located in the modes Resources folder.  
It defines regexes to parse the document for elements to show in the symbol popup - for example pragma marks, todos, method declarations. 

1. [Example File](#ExampleFile)
2. [File structure - Tags and Attributes](#FileStructure)
3. [Additional Information](#AdditionalInformation)
	* [No longer supported `image`-attribute values](#UnsupportedImageValues)
	* [Autogenerated symbol images](#AutogeneratedSymbols)
	* [Unknown behavior if the `symbol`-attribute is an empty string](#EmptySymbolString)
	* [Known Bug: resolution specific images are ignored even if available](#ResolutionBug)
	* [Unused: `<blocks>`, `<beginregex>`, `<endregex>` tags and &lt;symbol&gt;-attribute `ignoreblocks`](#BlockTag)


### <a name="ExampleFile"></a>Example File:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE syntax SYSTEM "symbol.dtd">

<symbols>
	<symbol id="Todos" symbol="do_#2B50E8_11.0_LucidaGrande" indentation="1" show-in-comments="yes">
		<regex>(^%TODO:[^\n\r]*)</regex>
		<postprocess>
			<find>^%(TODO:[^\n\r]*)</find>
			<replace>\1</replace>
		</postprocess>
	</symbol>

	<symbol id="Warnings" image="SymbolWarn">
		<regex>(^%Warning:[^\n\r]*)</regex>
		<postprocess>
			<find>^%(Warning:[^\n\r]*)</find>
			<replace>!!! \1</replace>
			<find>[ \t]+$</find>
			<replace></replace>
		</postprocess>
	</symbol>

	<symbol id="Foobar" image="CustomImage">
		<regex>foobar</regex>
	</symbol>
</symbols>
```	


### <a name="FileStructure"></a>File structure - Tags and Attributes

* [**&lt;symbols&gt;**](#tag_symbols)
	* [**&lt;symbol&gt;**](#tag_symbol)*  
		@ [id](#attribute_id)  
		@ [font-style](#attribute_font-style) (_optional_)  
		@ [font-weight](#attribute_font-weight) (_optional_)  
		@ [image](#attribute_image) (_optional_)  
		@ [indentation](#attribute_indentation) (_optional_)  
		@ [show-in-comments](#attribute_show-in-comments) (_optional_)  
		@ [symbol](#attribute_symbol) (_optional_)  
		
		* [**&lt;regex&gt;**](#tag_regex)
		* [**&lt;postprocess&gt;**](#tag_postprocess) (_optional_)
			* [**&lt;find&gt;**](#tag_findreplace)*
			* [**&lt;replace&gt;**](#tag_findreplace)*


---
#### <a name="tag_symbols"></a>`<symbols>`
The `<symbols>` tag is the root tag for this document.  
It can contain multiple `<symbol>` tags.  
This tag is required.  


---
#### <a name="tag_symbol"></a>`<symbol>`
The `<symbol>` tag specifies what is being shown in the symbol popup. The result of regex and optional postprocessing are used to generate the symbol title. If the result for the title is an empty string the symbol shows up as an separator in the popup.  
It contains a `<regex>` tag and an optional `<postprocess>` tag.  
This tag is optional.  

##### Attributes

* <a name="attribute_id"></a>`id` - string identifier for an specific symbol - has to be a unique string - has to be specified

* <a name="attribute_font-style"></a>`font-style` _(optional)_ - font style of the symbol title - possible values:
	*  _normal_ : Normal font-style (default)
	* _italic_ : Italic text in popup

* <a name="attribute_font-weight"></a>`font-weight` _(optional)_ - font weight of the symbol title - possible values:
	* _normal_ (default) : Normal text
	* _bold_ : Bold text in popup

* <a name="attribute_image"></a>`image` _(optional)_ - icon image for the symbol - if this is specified the symbol attribute will be ignored - possible values:
	* image included in the application - SubEthaEdit currently supports: _SymbolWarn_
	* image in the Resources directory of the mode by name - Apple’s naming conventions for high-resolution versions of the image apply (file extension is optional) (**Note: there is a bug in SEE 4.0.1 and lower that ignores the resolution specific images**)  

* <a name="attribute_indentation"></a>`indentation` _(optional)_ - level of indentation in the symbol popup - possible values:
	* _0_ (default) 
	* _1-15_ 

* <a name="attribute_show-in-comments"></a>`show-in-comments` _(optional)_ - will ignore this symbol definition if it occours in a comment - possible values:
	* _no_ (default)
	* _yes_
	
* <a name="attribute_symbol"></a>`symbol` _(optional)_ -  autogenerated symbol image - if the image attribute is specified this will be ignored - possible values:
	*	string with the format _name_
	*	string with the format _name_hexcolor_
	*	string with the format _name_hexcolor_fontsize_
	*	string with the format _name_hexcolor_fontsize_fontfamily_
	
	where  
	_name_ is the character(s) that should show up in the icon (eg. F(), M) - defaults to empty string  
	_hexcolor_ is a HTML color string (eg. #f84, #aa8799) - defaults to #2B50E8   
	_fontsize_ is a font size in points - defaults to 11.0  
	_fontfamily_ is the name of a font - defaults to LucidaGrande 


---
#### <a name="tag_regex"></a>`<regex>`
The `<regex>` tag specifies the regular expression that is used to search for this `<symbol>`. It contains a Ruby-flavored regular expression. If groups are specified in the regular expression the first group is used for the found string.  
This tag is required.  

_Tip_: Escape unwanted groups with (?:).  


---
#### <a name="tag_postprocess"></a>`<postprocess>` _(optional)_
The `<postprocess>` tag specifies the find and replace operations that should be executed on the found string to generate the desired title string. It can contain multiple `<find>` and `<replace>` pairs.  
This tag is optional.
	

---
#### <a name="tag_findreplace"></a>`<find>` and `<replace>`
Contained in the `<postprocess>` tag `<find>` and `<replace>` specify the find and replace operations that should be executed on the found string. They each contain a Ruby-flavored regular expression. You can use groups like \1 and the like.    
These tags are required and need to be added in pairs.


---
### <a name="AdditionalInformation"></a>Additional Information:

#### <a name="UnsupportedImageValues"></a>No longer supported `image`-attribute values
* Symbol#
* SymbolC
* SymbolE
* SymbolF
* SymbolF()
* SymbolG
* SymbolK
* SymbolL
* SymbolM
* SymbolP
* SymbolS
* SymbolT
* SymbolV

They are replaced by either autogenerated symbol images or custom image graphics  (see [`<symbol>`](#tag_symbol) and its attributes `symbol` and `image`).

	
#### <a name="AutogeneratedSymbols"></a>Autogenerated symbol images

Examples:

```xml
<symbol id="Foo" symbol="w()_#b33">(…)</symbol>
<symbol id="Foo" symbol="M">(…)</symbol>
```

(see [`<symbol>`](#tag_symbol) and its attributes `symbol` and `image`).

#### <a name="EmptySymbolString"></a>Unknown behavior if the `symbol`-attribute is an empty string
To be tested.


#### <a name="ResolutionBug"></a>Known Bug: resolution specific images are ignored even if available
Affects SubEthaEdit 4.0.1 and below.


#### <a name="BlockTag"></a>Unused: `<blocks>`, `<beginregex>`, `<endregex>` tags and &lt;symbol&gt; attribute `ignoreblocks`

**! Has no effect**

There are modes out there that have these tags/attributes, but they have no effect.

`ignoreblocks` : possible values `yes` and `no` _(no default behavior, is ignored)_

Example:

```xml
<blocks>
	<beginregex>{</beginregex>
	<endregex>}</endregex>
</blocks>
<symbol id="id3" ignoreblocks="yes">[…]</symbol>
```



<!-- Referenced Paths -->
[ModeExample]: .. "SubEthaEdit 4 Example Mode Documentation"
